.TH mphoon 1 "7 October 1994"
.SH NAME
mphoon \- display the PHase of the mOON in an Mgr window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
mphoon  \%[ -b ]  \%[ -t <interval> ]
.in -.5i
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mphoon
displays in an Mgr window a picture of the moon in its current phase,
including the partial lighting of the dark side by reflected earthlight.
.LP
The
.I -b
flag defeats the earthlight feature, forcing the dark side to be black.
The
.I -t
flag can be used to have
.I mphoon
keep running and update the picture every
.I <interval>
minutes.
(given no arguments,
.I mphoon
just displays the image and exits.)
.SH NOTES
The original motivation for this program, under X, was that xsetroot was
.B too slow.
Loading a full-screen bitmap took about 15 seconds.
We made a trivial program that had fullmoon.bitmap compiled in, and
it ran in less than a second.
(And incidentally, the executable was smaller than fullmoon.bitmap.)
Then later we came up with the cheapmoons, the phase hacking, and
finally the earthlight.
.SH "SEE\ ALSO"
.IR phoon(1),
.IR xphoon(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Copyright (C) 1988 by Jef Poskanzer and Craig Leres.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
implied warranty.

The moon-phase computation is from "moontool.c" by John Walker.

Port of xphoon to the MGR window system by Carsten Emde, with Linux
and SunOs porting help by Vincent Broman.
