.\"{{{  Macros
.Sh page Macros
The C library interface macros expand into
.I printf
expressions that convert their command specification into the \*M stream
protocol.  Compile time and run time options are available that globally
alter the behavior of these macros to the specific needs of the client
program.  The options are detailed in the
.I "Using the Library"
section of this document.
The macros should be regarded as statements,
not as expressions returning values.
The macro descriptions here attempt to reflect the
actual state of the system, and may include some inconsistencies that
should be cleaned up in future releases of the software.  Every \*M
command (a command identifier - argument count combination) that is
accepted by \*M has a macro which invokes that function.
.LP
.\"{{{  m_addchar
.Fh m_addchar
.Fs m_addchar 3 "Insert a space character"
Inserts a space character at the current character cursor position.
The remaining characters on the line, if any, are shifted to the right.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_addchars
.Fh m_addchars n
.Fs m_addchars 3 "Insert some space characters"
Inserts
.Fi n
space characters at the current character cursor position.
The remaining characters on the line, if any, are shifted to the right.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_addline
.Fh m_addline
.Fs m_addline 3 "Insert a blank line"
Inserts a
blank line at current row. The current row, and any below it,
are shifted down one line.
The bottom line of text is scrolled off the window.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_addlines
.Fh m_addlines n
.Fs m_addlines 3 "Insert some blank lines"
Inserts
.Fi n
blank lines at current row. The current row, and any below it,
are shifted down.
The bottom 
.Fi n
lines of text are scrolled off the window.
It is much more efficient to call
.Fr m_addlines n 
 once, than it is to call
.Fr m_addline
.Fi n
times.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_aligntext
.Fh m_aligntext
.Fs m_aligntext 3 "Align character cursor with the graphics point"
Moves the current character cursor coincident
with the current graphics point.
The current graphics point is set with 
.Fr m_go x  y  
\&.
This permits client programs to position characters at arbitrary pixel
locations on the window.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_arc
.Fh m_arc x  y  x1  y1  x2  y2
.Fs m_arc 4 "Draw an arc"
An arc centered at
.Fr "" x y
 is drawn counter clockwise from 
.Fr "" x1 y1
 to
.Fr "" x2 y2
 using the current drawing function (see
.Fr m_func
).
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_bell
.Fh m_bell
.Fs m_bell 1 "Flash the window and ring the bell"
The window flashes and the bell, if there is one, rings.
Even if the window is totally obscured, its flashing is made visible
to the user.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_bcolor
.Fh m_bcolor color
.Fs m_bcolor 14 "Set the text background color"
The background color for text operations is set to
.Fi color ,
which is an index into the color lookup table.
This command has no effect on a monochrome display.
See also 
.Fr m_fcolor
 and
.Fr m_fgbgcolor
\&.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_bitccreate
.Fh m_bitccreate  n  wide  high  deep
.Fs m_bitccreate 5 "Create a color scratchpad bitmap"
Create the scratchpad bitmap
.Fi n
of size
.Fi wide
by
.Fi high
with bit depth
.Fi deep
having undefined initial contents.
This macro is identical to
.Fr m_bitcreate
except that if
.Fi deep
is specified to be other than one,
then the bitmap is given the same bit depth as
that of the window or screen, generally eight on a color system.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_bitcld
.Fh m_bitcld  wide  high  x  y  deep size
.Fs m_bitcld 5 "Download an image to the window"
Prepare \*M to download a color or monochrome bitmap to the window.
This macro instructs \*M
that the next
.Fi size
bytes received will be interpreted as
a bitmap image to be displayed on the window starting
at location
.Fr "" x y
, and of size
.Fi  wide
by
.Fi high
by
.Fi deep
in bits.
Downloading bitmaps requires an eight bit channel between \*M
and the client program.
Large bitmaps are best sent in several pieces.
The macro
.Fr m_bitfromfile
 should be used instead, where possible, as it only requires a seven bit
data channel
and avoids the movement of large amounts of data through the channel.
If more bytes are specified than required by the size of the bitmap,
they are discarded.
If the number specified by
.Fi size
is insufficient to fill the entire bitmap, the remainder of the bits
are set to undetermined values.  The bitmap data is sent in external format.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_bitcldto
.Fh m_bitcldto wide  high  x_dst  y_dst  deep  to  size
.Fs m_bitcldto 5 "Down load an image to a scratchpad bitmap"
Prepare to download a bitmap to the scratchpad bitmap
.Fi to .
If
.Fi to
does not already exist, (see
.Fr  m_bitcreate
),
it is
created automatically with size
.Fi wide
by
.Fi high
by
.Fi deep
in bits.
This function instructs \*M that the next
.Fi size
bytes received will be interpreted as
a bitmap image to be copied to scratchpad bitmap
.Fi to
at location
.Fi  x_dst , y_dst .
This function requires an eight bit channel between \*M
and the client program.
If more bytes are specified than required by the size of the bitmap,
they are discarded.
If the number specified by
.Fi size
is insufficient to fill the entire bitmap, the remainder of the bits
are set to undetermined values.  The bitmap data is sent in external format.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_bitcopy
.Fh m_bitcopy x_dst  y_dst  wide  high  x_src  y_src
.Fs m_bitcopy 5 "Bit-blt a rectangle within the window"
Copy a rectangle from one place on the window to another
with the copy function set by
.Fr  m_func n
\&. 
The rectangular area at
.Fi  x_src , y_src
of size
.Fi wide
by
.Fi high
is combined with
the rectangle at
.Fi x_dst , y_dst
according to the last function set by
.Fr m_func
\&.
The resultant rectangle is placed at
.Fi x_dst , y_dst .
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_bitcopyto
.Fh m_bitcopyto x_dst  y_dst wide  high  x_src  y_src  to  from
.Fs m_bitcopyto 5 "Bit-blt a rectangle between two bitmaps"
Combine the rectangle at position
.Fi x_src , y_src
of size
.Fi wide
by
.Fi high
of bitmap
.Fi from
with the rectangle of the same size at
.Fi x_dst,
.Fi y_dst
of bitmap
.Fi to .
The bit-blt function used to combine the two rectangles is set by
.Fr m_func
\&.
.Fi From
and
.Fi to
are scratch-pad bitmap descriptors.
Scratchpad bitmap 0 (zero) represents the current window contents and may
be used for the 
source, destination,
or both.
If the scratchpad bitmap
.Fi to
does not already exist, it is created with a size of 
.Fi wide + x_src
by
.Fi high + y_src .
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_bitcreate
.Fh m_bitcreate  n  wide  high
.Fs m_bitcreate 5 "Create a scratchpad bitmap"
Create the scratchpad bitmap
.Fi n
of size
.Fi wide
by
.Fi high
with bit depth one, i.e. monochrome.
The contents of the bitmap are undefined.
The macro
.Fr m_bitwriteto
 can be used to initialize the scratchpad bitmap.
If the bitmap already exists, the old one is first discarded.
Scratchpad bitmaps may also be created implicitly
by specifying a non-existent bitmap as the destination of
.Fr m_bitwriteto 
,
.Fr m_bitcopyto 
,
.Fr m_bitld 
, or 
.Fr m_stringto
\&.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_bitdestroy
.Fh m_bitdestroy n
.Fs m_bitdestroy 5 "Destroy a scratchpad bitmap"
Destroys scratchpad bitmap
.Fi n
and frees all the resources 
associated with it.
If
.Fi n
does not exist, this macro has no effect.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_bitfromfile
.Fh m_bitfromfile to  name
.Fs m_bitfromfile 5 "Read a bitmap file into a scratchpad bitmap"
Copy the file
.Fi name
on the
.I \*M-host
machine into the scratchpad bitmap
.Fi to .
The scratchpad bitmap
.Fi to
is created if it does not already exist.
.B \*M
returns  a single line containing the
.I width
and
.I height
of the bitmap,
or a 
.I blank
if the file could not be found or loaded.
If 
.Fi name
does not start with
.B /
or
.B ./ ,
The file
.Fi name
is prefixed
with \*M's home directory and
.I /icon/ .
.Fi Name s
starting with 
.B ./
are evaluated relative to the directory current when 
.B \*M
was invoked.
The formats of bitmap files are described in the
.I "include/mgr/mgr.h"
header file.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_bitget
.Fh m_bitget from  size  offset
.Fs m_bitget 5 "Upload a bitmap to the client program"
Upload part of a
.I scratchpad
bitmap.
.Fi Size
bytes of
.I scratchpad
bitmap
.Fi from ,
starting
.Fi offset
bytes from the beginning of the bitmap
are sent to the client program from
.B \*M.
After this call, the client 
is expected to read
.Fi size
bytes from the input stream.
The image data is sent in external bitmap format,
i.e., raster scan order, 8 pixels to a bigendian byte,
padded at the right of every line to 8 bits.
.Fi Size
should be kept small (about 80 bytes), to avoid potential
flow control problems, with bitmaps uploaded in
multiple passes.
The data sent by \*M
for this macro
requires an eight bit data channel, so its use is discouraged.
The macro
.Fr m_bitsave
 should be used instead when possible.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_bitld
.Fh m_bitld  wide  high  x  y  size
.Fs m_bitld 5 "Download a monochrome image to the window"
Prepare \*M to download a monochrome bitmap to the window.
This is identical to a call to m_bitcld with the parameter deep set to one.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_bitldto
.Fh m_bitldto wide  high  x_dst  y_dst  to  size
.Fs m_bitldto 5 "Down load a monochrome image to a scratchpad bitmap"
Prepare to download a monochrome bitmap to the scratchpad bitmap
.Fi to .
This is identical to a call to m_bitcldto with the parameter deep set to one.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_bitsave
.Fh m_bitsave from  name
.Fs m_bitsave 5 "Copy a scratchpad bitmap to a file"
Save a scratchpad bitmap
.Fi from
on the file
.Fi name
on the
.I \*M-host
file system.
If 
.Fi name
does not start with
.B /
or
.B ./ ,
.Fi name
is prefixed
with \*M's home directory and
.I /icon/ .
.Fi Name s
starting with 
.B ./
are evaluated relative to the directory current when 
.B \*M
was invoked.
Specifying
.Fi from
to be
.Fi 0
(zero)
saves the entire display contents to the file.
The functions
.Fr m_windowsave
 and
.Fr m_othersave
 are used to save contents of entire windows.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_bitset
.Fh m_bitset map x y v
.Fs m_bitset 5 "set a pixel on a bitmap to a given value"
Set the value of the pixel
.I x , y
on the bitmap
.I map
to the value given in
.I v .
In a monochrome version of the \*M server you can only set or clear the
particular pixel. Use 1 to set, 0 to clear; any other value will
have all but the low order bit masked out.
A color server will accept values from 0 to 255.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_bitvalue
.Fh m_bitvalue map x y
.Fs m_bitvalue 5 "Get value of pixel in bitmap"
Get the current value of the pixel x, y in the bitmap
.I bitmap .
The value can be read using the m_gets macro.
The string is a newline-terminated decimal integer.
A mono server only returns 1 for set, and 0 for clear.
A color server may return values from 0 to 255.
.Fe
.Fh m_bitwrite x_dst  y_dst  wide  high 
.Fs m_bitwrite 5 "Set, Clear or Invert a rectangular portion of the window"
The rectangular region of the window,
starting at
.Fi x_dst , y_dst
of extent
.Fi wide
by
.Fi high ,
is
set, cleared or inverted
as determined by the previous call to 
.Fr m_func
\&.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_bitwriteto
.Fh m_bitwriteto x_dst  y_dst  wide  high  to
.Fs m_bitwriteto 5 "Set, Clear or Invert a rectangular portion of a scratchpad bitmap"
The rectangular region of
.I scratchpad
bitmap 
.Fi to ,
starting at
.Fi x_dst , y_dst
of extent
.Fi wide
by
.Fi high ,
is
set, cleared or inverted
as determined by the previous call to 
.Fr m_func
\&.
If the destination
.Fi to
does not exist, it is created with the dimensions
.Fi wide
by
.Fi high .
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_broadcast
.Fh m_broadcast string
.Fs m_broadcast 12 "Broadcast a message to all listeners"
The message
.Fi string
is broadcast to all windows that are
.I listen ing.
.I Listen ing
is turned on by setting the 
.SM
.Fi ACCEPT
.LG
event for a window.
(See
.Fr m_setevent
).
Messages can only be sent to windows whose controlling
terminals have general write permission disabled (i.e. mode 0400)
as a security measure to prevent malicious foreign processes from sending
.I shell s
messages that get interpreted and executed as commands.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_circle
.Fh m_circle x_dst  y_dst  radius
.Fs m_circle 4 "Draw a circle"
A circle of radius
.Fi radius
is drawn, centered at
.Fi x_dst , y_dst .
The points at the edge of the circle are
set, cleared or inverted
depending upon the last call to
.Fr m_func
\&.
Circles are never scaled,
they always appear as circles on the display, regardless of the window shape.
The
.Fi radius
is scaled based upon the average
.Fi width
and
.Fi height
of the window.
Use
.Fr m_ellipse
 to obtain a scaled circle.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_clear
.Fh m_clear
.Fs m_clear 3 "Clear the window"
The current
.I "text region"
is cleared, and the character cursor is moved to position
.Fr "" 0 0
\&.
If no
.I "text region"
is set,
.Fr m_clear
 clears the entire window.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_cleareol
.Fh m_cleareol
.Fs m_cleareol 3 "Clear to the end of the line"
All of the characters on the current line, starting with the 
current character to the end of the
.I "text region" ,
are cleared.
If no
.I "text region"
is set,
.Fr m_cleareol
 clears to the edge of the window.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_cleareos
.Fh m_cleareos
.Fs m_cleareos 3 "Clear to the end of the window"
All of the characters in the current
.I "text region" ,
from the 
current character to the end
of the
.I "text region" ,
are cleared.
If no
.I "text region"
is set,
.Fr m_clear
 clears to the end of the window.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_clearevent
.Fh m_clearevent n
.Fs m_clearevent 9 "Clear an event"
Event
.Fi n
is cleared.
The integer
.Fi n
is one of:
.Fi ACCEPT ,
.Fi ACTIVATE ,
.Fi BUTTON_1 ,
.Fi BUTTON_1U ,
.Fi BUTTON_2 ,
.Fi BUTTON_2U ,
.Fi COVERED ,
.Fi DEACTIVATE ,
.Fi DESTROY ,
.Fi MOVE ,
.Fi NOTIFY ,
.Fi PASTE ,
.Fi REDRAW ,
.Fi RESHAPE ,
.Fi SNARFED,
or
.Fi UNCOVERED .
See
.Fr m_setevent
 for a description of the events.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_clearmenu
.Fh m_clearmenu n
.Fs m_clearmenu 8 "Clear a menu"
If menu
.Fi n
exists,
it is cleared.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_clearmode
.Fh m_clearmode mode
.Fs m_clearmode 6 "Reset a window mode"
Clear one of the following window modes.
Except where noted, these are the default settings.
The mode settings are more fully explained in
.Fr m_setmode
\&.
.RS
.IP \fBM_ABS\fP 0.5i
.br
.I Absolute
window coordinate mode is turned off.
The window is now in
.I relative
window coordinates. 
All window coordinates range from
.Fr "" 0 0
 in the upper left corner to
.Fr "" 999 999
 at the lower right.
.IP \fBM_ACTIVATE\fP 0.5i
.br
Bury the window. Unlike the other window modes, 
.I bury 
has no state associated with it, just a one time action.
A window is buried by visually pushing it to the 
bottom of the display;
any window intersecting it will appear in front of it.
.IP \fBM_AUTOEXPOSE\fP 0.5i
.br
Do not automatically activate the window the next time it
receives output.
.IP \fBM_BACKGROUND\fP 0.5i
.br
\*M does not permit the window to update if it is partially or totally obscured.
Data destined for the window is held until the window is uncovered,
or
.SM
.B M_BACKGROUND
.LG
is turned on.
.IP \fBM_CONSOLE\fP 0.5i
.br
This window is not the destination of stuff written to "/dev/console".
.IP \fBM_NOBUCKEY\fP 0.5i
.br
Buckey keys, those with value from 128-255,
can cause server functions to be executed when typed at the keyboard,
if the BUCKEY capability was configured into the server at compile time.
.IP \fBM_NOINPUT\fP 0.5i
.br
Accept keyboard input if the window is active.
.IP \fBM_NOREPORT\fP 0.5i
.br
Report changes in window sizes to the OS,
if the OS wants to know the sizes of terminals attached to ttys.
.IP \fBM_NOWRAP\fP 0.5i
.br
Wrap the character cursor to the next line when it reaches the right margin
of the
.I "text region" .
.IP \fBM_OVERSTRIKE\fP 0.5i
.br
Do not overstrike characters.
Text is copied to the window as if
.Fr m_func BIT_SRC
 is set.
.IP \fBM_SNARFHARD\fP 0.5i
.br
The system
.I cut
function fails if any errors are found. 
This is indicated by flashing the window.
The contents of the
.I cut
buffer are left undisturbed.
Normally this only happens if some process unknown to \*M scribbles into
the region being cut.
.IP \fBM_SNARFLINES\fP 0.5i
.br
Sets
the system
.I cut
function to cut individual characters,
instead of entire lines only.
.IP \fBM_SNARFTABS\fP 0.5i
.br
The system
.I cut
function cuts text exactly as it appears on the window.
All interior white space is converted to 
.I space s,
all trailing white space is treated as a
.I "new line" .
.IP \fBM_STACK\fP 0.5i
.br
Event stacking is turned off.
Event strings are only returned for the current window context and
not for any contexts stacked with
.Fr m_push
\&.
.IP \fBM_STANDOUT\fP 0.5i
.br
Characters are drawn in black with a white background.
.IP \fBM_WOB\fP 0.5i
.br
The window foreground color is set to
.I black ,
and the window background color is set to
.I white .
.IP \fBM_DUPKEY\fP 0.5i
.br
The keyboard escape character is turned off.
This mode is turned on by calling
.Fr m_dupkey
\&.
There is no corresponding call to
.Fr m_setmode
\&.
.RE
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_deletechar
.Fh m_deletechar
.Fs m_deletechar 3 "Delete a character"
The character at the cursor position is deleted.
Any characters on the line to the right of the cursor are shifted
left one character position.
The last character on the line is set to a
.I space .
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_deletechars
.Fh m_deletechars n
.Fs m_deletechars 3 "Delete characters"
The next
.Fi n
characters are deleted, starting at the character cursor position.
Any characters on the line to the right of the cursor are shifted
left 
.Fi n
character positions.
The last 
.Fi n
characters on the line are set to 
.I space .
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_deleteline
.Fh m_deleteline
.Fs m_deleteline 3 "Delete a line"
The line at the cursor position is deleted.
Any lines below the cursor are shifted
up one line.
The last line is cleared.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_deletelines
.Fh m_deletelines n
.Fs m_deletelines 3 "Delete lines"
The next
.Fi n
lines starting at the cursor position and toward the bottom 
of the window are deleted.
Any lines below the deleted ones are shifted
up 
.Fi n
lines.
The last 
.Fi n
lines are cleared.
It is more efficient to make one call to
.Fr m_deletelines
 than to call
.Fr m_deleteline
.Fi n
times.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_destroywin
.Fh m_destroywin n
.Fs m_destroywin 11 "Destroy an alternate window"
Destroy alternate window
.Fi  n ,
created by calling
.Fr m_newwin
\&.
If output is currently directed to this window,
it is automatically re-directed to the
.I main
window.
See also
.Fr m_selectwin
\&.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_down
.Fh m_down n
.Fs m_down 3 "Move character cursor down by tenths of a character height"
Move the character cursor down 
.Fi n
tenths of a character height.  This may cause the window to scroll.
See also
.Fr m_left
, 
.Fr m_right
, and
.Fr  m_up
\&.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_draw
.Fh m_draw x  y
.Fs m_draw 4 "Draw a line from the graphics point"
Draw a line from current
.I "graphics point"
to
.Fr ""  x y
\&.
The macro
.Fr m_go
 is used to move the
.I "graphics point" .
The
.I "graphics point"
is left at
.Fr "" x y
, the end point of the line.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_dupkey
.Fh m_dupkey char
.Fs m_dupkey 6 "Turn on keyboard escape mechanism"
Every time the character
.Fi char
is typed at the keyboard for this window,
it is sent to the client program twice.
This enables clients to reliably distinguish
keyboard input from that generated by menu selections or events.
The client begins every
.I event
and
.I menu
string with a two character code
whose first character is
.Fi char
and whose second character is anything but
.Fi char
or
.Fi space .
When this mode is set, all replies to \*M queries, as with 
.Fr m_getinfo
are prepended by the two character sequence
.Fi char
followed by
.Fi space .
For multiline requests, such as
.Fr M_getinfo G_ALL
only the first line of the reply is affected.
These two characters are also prepended to all other \*M commands that
return a character string to the client program, such as 
.Fr m_newwin
 or
.Fr m_bitfromfile
\&.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_ellipse
.Fh m_ellipse x  y  radius1 radius2
.Fs m_ellipse 4 "Draw an ellipse"
Draw an ellipse centered at
.Fr "" x y
\&.
The values for
.Fi radius1
and
.Fi radius2
are the major and minor axis radii.
The ellipse is either
set, cleared or inverted
determined by the last call to
.Fr m_func
\&.
The values for
.Fi radius1
and
.Fi radius2
are scaled based upon the average
width and height of the window.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_ellipseto
.Fh m_ellipseto to  x  y  radius1 radius2
.Fs m_ellipseto 4 "Draw an ellipse on a scratchpad bitmap"
Draw an ellipse on scratchpad bitmap
.Fi to
centered at
.Fr "" x y
 where
.Fi radius1 , radius2
are the major and minor axis radii.
The ellipse is either
set, cleared or inverted
determined by the last call to
.Fr m_func
\&.
The values for
.Fi radius1
and
.Fi radius2
are scaled based upon the average
.Fi width
and
.Fi height
of the window.
If the offscreen bitmap
.Fi to
does not exist, 
this call has no effect.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_fastdraw
.Fh m_fastdraw x y count data
.Fs m_fastdraw 4 "Draw a group of fast vectors"
The next
.Fi count
bytes of
.Fi data
are sent to \*M are to be interpreted as lines drawn in
.I "fast draw"
mode,
starting at
.Fr "" x y
\&.
.I "Fast draw"
mode permits the rapid drawing of short vectors
by encoding an 
.I x,y
displacement location in a single byte.
The 
.I x
coordinate is contained in the most significant
4 bits, the
.I y
coordinate in the least significant 4 bits.
Values for
.I x
and
.I y
represent displacements from the previous location, and
range from +7 to -8.
A 7 is coded as 
.B 0xff ,
a -8 as
.B 0x00 .
If both 
.I x
and
.I y
are zero (i.e.
.B 0x8080 ).
The next coordinate is taken to be a
.I move
instead of a
.I draw.
An eight bit channel between \*M and the client program is required for
.I "fast draw"
mode.
See also
.Fr m_rfastdraw
\&.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_fcolor
.Fh m_fcolor color
.Fs m_fcolor 14 "Set the text foreground color"
The foreground color for text operations is set to
.Fi color
,
which is an index into the color lookup table.
This command has no effect on a monochrome display.
See also 
.Fr m_bcolor
 and
.Fr m_fgbgcolor
\&.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_fgbgcolor
.Fh m_fgbgcolor fg_color bg_color
.Fs m_fgbgcolor 14 "Set the graphics foreground and background colors"
The foreground and background colors for graphics operations are set to
.Fi fg_color
, and
.Fi bg_color
\&,
which are indices into the color lookup table.
This command has no effect on a monochrome display.
If either argument has a negative value,
then the corresponding color (foreground or background)
remains unchanged.
See also 
.Fr m_bcolor
 and
.Fr m_fcolor
\&.
.Fe
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  m_flush
.Fh m_flush
.Fs m_flush 1 "Flush any outpout pending for the window"
Flush the \*M output buffer.
This is equivalent to the stdio function
.B fflush()
and is needed only when the
.SM
.Fi M_FLUSH
.LG
flag is
.I not
specified in the call to 
.Fr m_setup
\&.
.Fe
.\"}}}
